---
layout: post
title: "Concepts"
date: 2024-11-27
categories: blog
---
# Web Agents
Web Agents are designed to help with the integration
problems that arise when making systems work together. They are:

- **Lightweight**
  - Backend provisioning is automatic.
  - Backend logic is written in Typescript (or Javascript)
- **Web Addressable**
  - Each web agent has a unique DNS hostname.
  - Each web agent is permanently available.
- **Dynamic**
  - API endpoints are installed and removed at any time.
  - Server processes are started and stopped on demand.

Here are some examples of web agents:

  - `jane.doe.family` is a personal agent unique to one person, able to interact with business systems, websites or other web agents. For
    example, this might provide automatic login so Jane can forget passwords, provide a 2FA capability, allow Jane to play multiuser
    games or share her identity and selected personal data between different businesses.
  - `gateway.acme.com` is a business agent providing a set of services such as gateways for identify verification,
    biometric authentication, Shopify apps and a Twilio gateway to handle outbound text messaging.
  - `s-44-a433100002.iot.neff.com` is an IoT agent paired with a smart domestic appliance, providing
    a set of endpoints for the manufacturer to collect data and provide updates; and for the consumer to manage the smart device.

# How They Work
Web Agents are instantly provisioned by Web Agent Providers, such as Magic ID. Each Web Agent has certain characteristics:

1. A unique hostname on the internet. This is assigned by the Web Agent Provider, who may allow customers to BYOD (bring your own domain) such as `gateway.acme.com`; or assign a host name at random such as `s-44-a433100002.iot.neff.com`; or provide
   vanity domains (such as `jane.doe.family`).
2. The ability to instantaneously install and remove server code (i.e. provide custom app backends).
3. The ability to sign requests sent to other systems, who then know who's talking to them.
4. The ability to request scopes on specific apps on other web agents, authorising API calls as appropriate.

# Web Agent Shell
Each individual web agent is controlled by whomever owns it, using the Web Agent Shell. This is similar to a smartphone's home screen. Among other things, it enables you to:

1. Install, remove, share and launch apps.
2. Allow multiple devices to use the same shell - for example, your smartphone and your laptop.
3. Copy files and directories to and from the web agent's private drive. For example, your private photos or apps you have developed for other people to use.

# Web Agent Apps
A web agent app is just a normal website.

But if the website is _savvy_ and checks for signed web agent tokens, then it can be sure who launched it (e.g. `jane.doe.family`) and can also make requests using those tokens.

Moreover, if the token requests the appropriate scope, it can be used to make API calls on the requesting web agent
on the endpoint provided by some specific app loaded in that agent.

Endpoints come and go as apps are installed and removed from the agent. Often, endpoints installed by a given app are
used by that same app which uses a signed token in its requests.

But equally, an app can create a public endpoint that requires no token for authentication or authorization.

A website that doesn't check for a signed web agent token is known as a _dumb app_. If a savvy app is launched in your browser but without tokens, it is known as an _orphan app_.

# Web Agent Drive
Every web agent has a private drive. This is like Google Drive - only simpler because it provides a folder structure exactly like
the drive inside your Mac or PC.

Folders and files can be marked as _public_ or _private_ (the default). Thus, you can upload a directory from your
Mac or PC containing an app that you have developed and make it available for others to enjoy.
